# Pandas-Challenge

Having the starter code was definitely very helpful, the variable names were almost half of the work. It took me awhile to put the script together. I think one of the challenges with pandas is bracets, square brackets and parenthesis- placing them correctly and making sure to open and close them every time. So is keeping track of the variable names. As there was alot of repetition it was easier to copy paste a code once I figured it out and just change variable name. Arithmatic is easy with pandas; so is cleaning up the data, filtering, doing calculations and playing around with the dataframe and what we need to be displayed is great, but finding the right function is a challenge- especially for a beginner. I struggled couple of times and asked AI on the bootcamp portal to help fix the code. One thing that I needed help with is converting the Per Student budget into object and removing the $ of the Per Student Budget in order to be able to use pd.cut to categorize spending based on the bins (AI helped with this task).

#Analysis:

On average the district schools have a higher total budget and a higher number of students, however, the charter schools have a higher overall pass rate. Average reading scores are also higher than maths scores and the average overall pass rate between district and charter schools is 72.05%. Furthermore, student's test scores tend to be higher than the overall pass rate which suggests something about what students are motivated to do well in and school priorities. On another note, despite charter schools doing better than district schools and having less students (which would suggest a higher budget/student); the highest amount spent per student was $680 and all 3 of the schools that reached such a number were district schools. More interestingly, the amount spent per student has an indirectly proportional relationship with average score and overall pass rate. School size and overall pass rate also have an indirectly proportional relationship but that is less surprising due to the fact that it has been proven a multitude of times that higher class/student sizes have a negative impact on learning.
